[Term Entry] JS DOM Method: .createElement() (#6274)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/dom-manipulation/terms/createElement/createElement.md

---
Title: '.createElement()'
Description: 'Generates a new element node of the specified type.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
Tags:
  - 'JavaScript'
  - 'DOM'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Elements'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-javascript'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> In JavaScript, the **`.createElement()`** [method](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/methods) under the `document` [object](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/objects) is used to generate a new element node of the specified type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JavaScript, the **`.createElement()`** [method](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/methods) of the `document` [object](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/javascript/objects) creates a new element node of the specified type.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
document.createElement(type)
```

> - `type`: The type of element to create.

Reviewer: This can be a little bit more clear like this:

```suggestion
- `type`: A string representing the tag name of the element to be created.
```

## Example

The following example demonstrates the usage of the `.createElement()` method:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

> document.body.onload = addElement;

Reviewer: The `document.body.onload` assignment should be removed, as it's unnecessary in most cases. The function should be called explicitly in the script or executed within a `<script>` tag in an HTML document.

```suggestion
```

function addElement() {
  // Create a div element
  const myDiv = document.createElement('div');

  // Create a text node containing data
  const data = document.createTextNode('Hi, Codecademy!');

  // Insert the data into the div element
  myDiv.appendChild(data);

  // Add the element to the body
  document.body.appendChild(myDiv);
}
```

> The example will result in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above code dynamically adds the following text to the webpage:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer: The output is not a terminal (shell) output but rather what appears in the browser. Instead of using a shell code block, use a regular paragraph/plain text and specify where the output can be seen.

```suggestion
```plaintext
```
